---
title: "Weeknote 14"
date: "2021-07-24T09:48:46-05:00"
cover: ""
tags: []
description: ""
showFullContent: false
categories: [weeknotes]
---

This was another vacation week—one more to go next week. We spent a few days at the pool, I played golf with my brother, and we cleaned out my car for our upcoming trip to whitewater rafting.

To give an idea of how long it's been since I've cleaned out my car, I found three toothbrushes from my trips to the dentist under the seats. My dentist gives out goody bags after a cleaning visit that include a toothbrush, a tiny tube of toothpaste, and floss. I usually grab the toothpaste to keep in my travel bags and throw the rest of the bag over my shoulder to the back seat. I go to the dentist every six months, so I'll let you do the math to figure out how longs it's been.

I decided to try to pick out a classic books this week at the library. I didn't read many in school, and I haven't read but a few on my own as an adult. I started with a *Tale of Two Cities* as the first book. But after reading two pages, I took it back to the library, not because it was bad, but because I don't have the mental endurance to take on such a book right now.

Our small town was hazy this week with the smoke from the forest fires out west. We're over 1k miles away, yet we could smell the smoke and see the effects in the sky, especially around the sun.

## Notes

- I finished *Bird by Bird* by Anne Lamott. It was enjoyable. If you're a writer or enjoy writing, it's worth a look.
- I started reading Nora Ephron's book *I Feel Bad About My Neck: And Other Thoughts on Being a Woman*.
- I started reading *‌Me Talk Pretty One Day* by David Sedaris.
- I'm trying to stay off Twitter as much as I can.
- We finished watching Superstore. It wasn't the best show I've ever watched, but it was enjoyable and kept us watching for all of the seasons.
- I made a spectacular omelet last night.
- In preparation for Ted Lasso S2, we're rewatching S1. 