---
title: "Weeknote 16"
date: "2021-08-07T10:51:15-05:00"
cover: ""
tags: []
description: ""
showFullContent: false
categories: [weeknotes]
---

This was my first week back to work after my time off, and wow it was tough to get back into the groove.

We started homeschooling for the 2021-2022 school year this week. I'm helping out by teaching writing for both kids—my wife heroically handles the other subjects. For writing, we're working on making up stories together by drawing pictures and then writing out what's going on. We try to think about how it fits on a story arc. The kids and I make up bedtime stories every night, so this is more about putting stories down on paper for us. Kids are so creative.

I've been trying hard to spend my time reading books rather than scrolling on Twitter. I learn a lot while reading Twitter and have been changed by what people share, but there's so much hate, despair, gloom, and fighting mixed in that I've found it unsustainable for me to take it in every day. While I don't want to ignore what's happening in the world, I also don't want to internalize a world's worth of suffering throughout my day every day. Life is hard enough as it is.

I spent Friday working on my [schema entropy](/tags/schema-entropy/) project and made good progress. I reworked my functionality for dereferencing OpenAPI documents and now have a good foundation for building out reports around the analysis I'm doing on the schemas. I'll be speaking on this topic at the [2021 API Specification Conference](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/openapi-asc/) so if you're interested in hearing more please consider attending.

I haven't written anything on here other than weeknotes for a few weeks now. I lost the momentum after my last post. Oh well. Thankfully this weeknote habit keeps me posting something.

## Notes

* I finished listening to the book *Sacred Hoops* by Phil Jackson. I also rewatched the docuseries "The Last Dance", and they both complimented each other well. Both are about the Chicago Bulls and their dominance during the '90s. I think anyone would enjoy them even if they aren't into basketball.
* I finished reading *Big Magic* by Elizabeth Gilbert. 
* I finished reading *Blue Like Jazz* by Donald Miller.
* I've started reading *The Art of Memoir* by Mary Karr.
* I went to a bike repair class that my wife led—she's a bike mechanic. I learned how to change a flat tire.