---
title: "Weeknote 26"
<<<<<<< HEAD
date: "2021-11-13T09:49:23-06:00"
=======
date: "2021-11-06T15:05:09Z"
>>>>>>> cca62c45fb74520a02138932b60f43971a1f0bd3
cover: ""
tags: []
description: ""
showFullContent: false
categories: [weeknotes]
---

<<<<<<< HEAD
It's fall now. We have about 10-15 huge trees that are pouring out a steady stream of leaves into our yard. The leaves are beautiful to look at while they're changing colors and still in the trees. But when they come down, they turn into a sloppy mess.

I've been coding a lot lately, for experimenting, for building tools for work, and for my own tinkering. Friday, I wrote a Python library for fun called [zzip](https://github.com/smizell/zzip) that's useful for traversing over data and making immutable changes. I decided to build it after reading [this interesting article](https://grishaev.me/en/clojure-zippers/) describing how it works in Clojure and the [original paper](https://www.st.cs.uni-saarland.de/edu/seminare/2005/advanced-fp/docs/huet-zipper.pdf) on the zipper idea. I've built [tools](https://github.com/smizell/saunter) similar to this before, but it's always been an uneducated attempt at it.

I have time off in a few weeks. I can't wait. I usually spend the first few days of a long break recovering from my work life. When I'm the most productive, I'm also the most stressed because of the way I feverishly work on projects. Though I might enjoy the work and love getting it finished, but the time it's done, I'm spent. I've only recently learned this about myself. I hope that awareness leads to a better relationship with work.

After the recovery period, I'll settle into a nice rhythm of relaxing, working on personal projects, or doing things around the house—which are all things I struggle doing at any other time. I'm looking forward to it!
=======
I'm writing this again using GitHub Codespaces.
I got Hugo working to be able to serve up the local server by setting up port forwarding for port 1313.
[Port forwarding](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/developing-in-codespaces/forwarding-ports-in-your-codespace) is a feature in Codespaces, so it's just a few clicks.
Then I provided Hugo with the URL Codespaces created and told it to not append the port.
It works, but LiveReload doesn't because of some protocol issues.
I'll dig more into that later.

```sh
hugo server -D --baseUrl <forwarded-url> --appendPort=false
```

It's fancy.
The keyboard shortcuts aren't that great since it's in the browser and they conflict sometimes.
But overall it still feels like the future.
Being able to do all of this from a Chromebook is neat experience.

After finishing writing my [book](https://apibydesign.com), I haven't been writing much.
I have lots of ideas swirling around, but I haven't had interest in sitting down to write.
I haven't even written a weeknote in a few weeks either.

## Notes

- We watched _Only Murders in the Building_. We loved it. I highly recommend it.
- I read [_The Agile Comms Handbook_](https://agilecommshandbook.com/). If I get the motivation, I'll write some about it.
- I'm reading _Several short sentences about writing_. It's been a good read.
- I'm taking off some extended time in December and can't wait for it to get here. 
>>>>>>> cca62c45fb74520a02138932b60f43971a1f0bd3

